Proposal forRChain Special Meeting
by dckc, in progress Apr-May 2019
https://github.com/rchain-community/sm19a
♫Welcome to the RChain Special Meeting♫

Records: Video, Text
Note Zoom recording in progress
Ask the chair (Dan) if you want the recording paused to speak off the record briefly
Norm: public video recording
On DivvyDAO: BYOID, RChain, DigLife Youtube channel
Thanks to our host, Jim Whitescarver (jimscarver)
Goal: near-real-time text notes
Scribe volunteers?
Shared notes
Session notes shared doc

Proposed: to thank Barry, Mark, and Kevin
“Upon submission of a petition signed by 10% of the membership to call a special meeting with one or more specific matters for a member vote, the RChain Board will schedule a special meeting of the membership at a commercially reasonable future date.”-- Bylaws section 3 Annual and Special Meetings
Whereas Barry Cynamon, Mark Pui, and Kevin Goldstein served with distinction on the RChain Cooperative board, let us thank them for their service. 

Timeline / Schedule
Tue, Apr 23: Barry’s resignationWed, Apr 24: Mark’s resignation
Fri, Apr 26: sm19a proposal in #governance at 23:52 UTC
Mandate: 100+ votes >= 10% of membership
Rough plan: 2-3 x 90min webinar sessionsseparated by a few days for “hallway discussion”
Sat, Apr 27: ~20 join office hours (video recording, rough transcript)
Membership:951 ID-Verified at last countper Ian Bloom Apr 24 in #governance

Timeline / Schedule
Fri, Apr 26: sm19a proposal in #governance at 23:52 UTC
Idea: 2-3 x 90min webinar sessionsseparated by a few days for “hallway discussion”
Sat, Apr 27: ~20 join office hours: video recording
Wed, May 1: Member meeting 10am PST (before 11am debrief)
Thu, May 2: Governance meeting
governance landscape spreadsheet
… raw video, chat
Sat, May 4: Office hours 9am Kansas City time <- you are here
See also RChain community calendar

Timeline / Schedule
Fri, Apr 26: sm19a proposal in #governance at 23:52 UTC
Idea: 2-3 x 90min webinar sessionsseparated by a few days for “hallway discussion”
Sat, Apr 27: ~20 join office hours: video recording
Sat, May 4: Office hours 9am Kansas City time <- you are here
Tue, May 7: Board meeting scheduled
Mon May 6?
Tue, May 14: LGM available to join 3:30 PST
Note doodle poll for time slots from May 4 - 15
See also RChain community calendar

Goals and Items of Business
It’s not clear that we can make any binding decisions in this meeting process, given constraints in the Bylaws
For example, under Board Nominations; Election:  “Candidates interested in being nominated for election must submit their Director Qualification Statement Form to the RChain Cooperative at nom-cmte@gov.rchain.coop sixty (60) days in advance of a meeting of the members.”
I aim to facilitate a discussion where people are heard.
Clear proposals with backing from dozens of members (including offers to participate) should be enough to start useful things moving.
Example: input to the board on new board members

Chair/MC: Dan Connolly
Decades of collaboration experience at W3C Running effective meetings:
Ensure participants are heard
Make good use of time
Ensure good records with clear follow-up
RChain community participant since Nov 2017
Capability Security, Correct-by-construction: Spring 2018 Dev conference presentation
Occasional rchain/rchain core commits: rholang code, scala code, .proto docs
RChain-API JavaScript API
dreaming big at the RChain Governance Forum (blog item 2018-02-21)
Saturday office Hours
Open to many outcomes
Chair’s role is not to champion any one position
Disclosure: contract/SOW: RChain Smart Contract and Software Development
Jan 2019, continued from Apr 2018

Goals and Items of Business
It’s not clear that we can make any binding decisions in this meeting process, given constraints in the Bylaws
For example, under Board Nominations; Election:  “Candidates interested in being nominated for election must submit their Director Qualification Statement Form to the RChain Cooperative at nom-cmte@gov.rchain.coop sixty (60) days in advance of a meeting of the members.”
I aim to facilitate a discussion where people are heard.
Clear proposals with backing from dozens of members (including offers to participate) should be enough to start useful things moving.
Watch the notes:
If the scribe got it, we heard you already. No need to repeat yourself.
If the scribe didn’t get it, many meeting participants probably didn’t either.
Are you talking too fast?
Are you rambling?
Session notes shared doc

Goals and Items of Business
It’s not clear that we can make any binding decisions in this meeting process, given constraints in the Bylaws
For example, under Board Nominations; Election:  “Candidates interested in being nominated for election must submit their Director Qualification Statement Form to the RChain Cooperative at nom-cmte@gov.rchain.coop sixty (60) days in advance of a meeting of the members.”
I aim to facilitate a discussion where people hear each other.
Clear proposals with backing from dozens of members (including offers to participate) should be enough to start useful things moving.
♫ RChain blues♫
Coop refinement
Non-coop
fizzle
#members: I agree in general and appreciate your time. Unfortunately my biggest concern now is that based on past actions outside of the member's control (in the short to medium term at least) it became near impossible to responsibly put one's reputation on the line for this project.  That said just as maybe just maybe the project was growing past those previous actions, more ridiculousness follows and it puts at least me back at square one in terms of putting my reputation on the line for it.  That is the most annoying part of this entire project thus far for someone that believes in the project and the space as a whole.

Goals and Items of Business
It’s not clear that we can make any binding decisions in this meeting process, given constraints in the Bylaws
For example, under Board Nominations; Election:  “Candidates interested in being nominated for election must submit their Director Qualification Statement Form to the RChain Cooperative at nom-cmte@gov.rchain.coop sixty (60) days in advance of a meeting of the members.”
I aim to facilitate a discussion where people are heard.
Clear proposals with backing from dozens of members (including offers to participate) should be enough to start useful things moving.
sm19a issues list has some rough proposals
Conduct polls, votes in member-only discord channel(s)
help wanted

IOB 4 Member Participation in Governance -> GP001

IOB4 says "The RChain Cooperative board shall define some parameters ..." 
Kenny was giving weekly updates...
RCHAIN PROGRESS REPORT 01.23.19
Kenny Rowe https://blog.rchain.coop/blog/2019/01/23/rchain-progress-update-01-23-19/

IOB4 links to https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nBRLjw8tuQd05GIacIhrN2FwFPJInwaiLNwiW0nb-E4/edit which bears "RChain Governance Process: GP001"


IOB 6 Technical Governance
10:43 AM
]
kellyfoster:
:
...I encourage those how are to keep in mind the critical role the coop plays in governing the platform once mainnet launches. 
https://github.com/rchain/legaldocs/blob/master/2018%20Annual%20Meeting/RChain%20Improvement%20Process%20(RIP%20Process).pdf was adopted as part of the vote of ballot measure #6 during the Oct 2018 annual meeting.

Please share your thoughts!
Chat in #members, #governance, etc.
Endorse the proposal in the #governance channel at 23:52 UTC Fri Apr 26.
Join @dckc’s weekly office hours
Sat 1400UTC https://zoom.us/j/6853551826 
Make comments on this slide deck
Raise an issue in the sm19a github repo

Appendix: RChain Cooperative Status
Bylaws Oct 8 2017 (original pdf)
Governing statute: RCW 23.86
Board transparency report - decisions, votes thru Oct 27, 2018
Oct 2018 annual meeting ballot form (cited from Debrief 99 blog item)
Item #1 Financial Transparency
Item #4: Member Participation in Governance
Item #5: RChain Monetary Policy
Item #6: RChain Improvement Process
Membership: 951 ID-Verified (per Ian Bloom Apr 24)
https://github.com/rchain-community/sm19a

Appendix: RChain Coop Staff
Greg M. - President
Lilia R. - General Manager
Ian B. - Administrative Director
Bill S. - Head of Human Resources
Kent S. - Software Developer
Tim M. - Part Time Accounting Assistant
Ned R. - Product Manager
Source: Bill S., Apr 29

Appendix: RChain Cooperative Officers
Greg M. - President
Ravi S. - COO
Treasurer - currently vacant 
Secretary - currently vacant 
Source: Bill S., Apr 29

Appendix: planning brainstorm
When? Where? 2-3 x 90min webinar sessions
Day, time TBA with >= 7 days notice
Venue: Zoom (+ discord for polling/voting)
Goal: near-real-time note taking (e.g. google doc or this slide deck)
Goal: separate sessions by a few days for “hallway discussion”
Goal: vary times of day for world-wide participation
What? Agenda chosen by the chair in this slide deck
Formal proposals in writing >=48hrs before final session
Reference materials frozen by cryptographic commitment (git hash, sha256, etc.)
Who? RChain members
Polls, votes conducted in member-only discord channel(s)
Risk of listening by non-members is acknowledged; no enforcement planned
Why? expressed will of >= 10% of the membership
per bylaws of Oct 8, 2018
Note doodle poll for time slots as early as May 4, 6
